# Bear Classification

Throwing down the gauntlet. I need to write something about Chapter 2 of the
fast.ai course book, which took a toy deep learning project -- fine-tuning a
computer vision model to classify bears as grizzly, black, or teddy -- from
concept through a "production" deployment.

But first, what am I doing here? Why am I even writing this?

I impulse-bought a book one day, called [Deep Learning for Coders with fastai &
PyTorch](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Learning-Coders-fastai-PyTorch/dp/1492045527),
after a came across it in [a blog post by Catherine
Olsson](https://80000hours.org/articles/ml-engineering-career-transition-guide/)
about transitioning from a career in "traditional" software engineering to one
in AI, with the goal of positively shaping the future development of the field.
I've been thinking a lot about the next phase of my career, trying to come up
with realistic ways that I can use my skills to have a positive social impact,
and this sounded interesting and promising. The post recommended trying out the
fast.ai course as a way to see what deep learning is all about in 2022. I had
dabbled with recurrent neural network back in 2014 or so, not long before we
moved from San Francisco to Pittsburgh, but things have changed so much since
then that I thought it made sense to start over from scratch.

The course recommends setting up a blog -- I haven't had one since jeez maybe
2004, when I ran Wordpress on I hosted myself on a VPS! -- and writing about
what I've been learning. Writing is a way of synthesizing, of thinking out
loud, and while I don't expect there to be any audience for these posts,
there's always the chance that somebody out there is following in my tentative
footsteps and that this could provide some food for though or some
encouragement. Also I'm mid-career, to put it generously, have always struggled
against my generalist tendencies and lack of focus, and could some kind of
"commitment mechanism" to keep myself honest. In short, I want to do this
course properly! I want to learn something new, and if writing about it is part
of the process than that's what I'm going to do.

I could use an editor I guess. All these words and I haven't even really
touched on the topic at hand -- bear classification -- yet!
